# OpenCV-based-Object-Detection
Moving object detection is the key technology to detect and identify the moving target from the video sequence. It is the basis of video analysis technology, computer image and video processing. It is widely used in transportation, medicine, industry and military field. Moving object detection has an important role in target recognition, tracking and behavioral understanding. At present, the main methods of detecting the moving targets.are frame difference method background subtraction method and optical flow method.

Managing vehicles has been same over the years. But now a days it cannot be proceeded the same way it used to, in past times. The vehicles on the road are increasing day by day and keeping control on parking and tracking it manually is erroneous and difficult task. The proposed system is used to give counts of vehicles entering in a parking and count of vehicles which exited the parking. The system also gives the data for revenue collected for parking on
Real time basis. Also, System informs about the current number of vacant slots available for parking out of total capacity in parking area in order to prevent the chaos in the parking area. This system has a wide area for implementations like malls, colleges, hospitals, Residential parking areas. Talking about scope of improvements the most common improvement it can have is an IOT integration so that if the parking overloads the automated gates can get close.

The proposed system Estimates the Cost of the parked Vehicles Without any Manual work Using the Gaussian Blur Technique and also requires the installation of a camera along with the dedicated system, The camera independently Reads the Video and Detects the Vehicles that are parked in the TCS ion Parking and when the Vehicles moves in OR out of the System it automatically increments and decrements the Space available in the Area and also a Alert System is Developed to Provide a warning if the Space is Full or the space is available.
